WASHINGTON — President Trump looked out on a chamber divided, turning often to his left, where the cheers sustained him. Already, the room had heard his ubiquitous pledge to restore bygone American greatness, completing its unlikely journey from trucker hat slogan to presidential tagline before a joint session of Congress. That much, most Democrats could abide, silently and seated. The president’s follow-up would not fly. "We have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption," Mr. Trump said, gazing sternly ahead. Some Republicans shot to their feet. Democrats began to laugh, loudly enough for a nation to hear. The president’s first address to Congress — even one often mild in tone, by his standards — was always going to be different. Mr. Trump has that effect. But the sensation was amplified in a space like this — a staid presidential ritual in an august chamber, commandeered by a Twittering president who seems to prefer an outdoor rally with a crowd chanting his surname. If Mr. Trump strained to project a presidential air, stifling digressions and generally staying on script, the spectacle also laid bare the simmering tensions that have overtaken an already long-polarized building. Republicans roared at most every flourish, cheering loudest early on, it seemed, for the first lady, Melania Trump, her black dress sparkling as she waved from the balcony. Democrats grumbled aloud as Mr. Trump called for the dismantling of the Affordable Care Act. Some turned their thumbs down, like aggrieved movie critics, as he called for bipartisan cooperation in the effort. Many Democratic women wore white, the color of suffragists, in a signal to Mr. Trump over women’s rights. Some went another way. "This is the purple caucus!" Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York said before the speech, pointing toward her seatmate, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, and two others in purple. At times, even the comedy felt partisan. When Mr. Trump said representatives from Harley-Davidson had encouraged him to ride a motorcycle — "I said, ‘No thanks,’" the president quipped — Democrats were stone-faced. Across the chamber, the joke killed. As with so many Trump-infused productions, the visuals on Tuesday often said enough, unfurling inside the congressional equivalent of a high school cafeteria. Sartorial choices doubled as protest, with pins calling for the survival of the health law. Handshakes, or nonhandshakes, were infused with deep meaning. And the choice of seatmates, as ever, held the power to bolster reputations. Lawmakers sustained the bipartisan tradition of using spare tickets to import human symbols, looking upon Mr. Trump like a mismatched orchestra. A Syrian refugee. A police officer. An undocumented immigrant. Sean Hannity. Then there was the president’s guest list, tinged with grief. He invited the father of a teenager killed by an undocumented immigrant, the widows of two officers killed in the line of duty by an undocumented immigrant and the widow of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, among others. The most thunderous applause came for the widow of William Owens, a Navy SEAL known as Ryan who was killed during a controversial raid in Yemen. She sat next to Mr. Trump’s daughter, Ivanka. For Mr. Trump’s critics, and even a few supporters, the sight of him in official settings has always proved jarring since his election: Mr. Trump holding forth in the East Room, Mr. Trump behind the presidential seal, Mr. Trump among the newly-gilded drapes of the Oval Office. The first Trump entrance on Tuesday supplied the latest entry, bringing him down the chamber aisle with a flurry of firm handshakes and decisive nodding. Some familiar faces were gone. Representative Eliot L. Engel, Democrat of New York, broke nearly three decades of personal tradition by declining to stand on the aisle and shake the president’s hand, finding his way to a middle seat. He cited Mr. Trump’s refusal to work "with all people" as a reason to break his own precedent. There were eager fill-ins. From his prime perch on the aisle, Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, who had invited Mr. Hannity as his guest, applied what appeared to be lip balm moments before the president’s arrival. Congressional enmity was not a Trump creation, particularly during this annual exercise in seesawing ovations, poorly concealed grimacing and occasional outbursts. Despite Democrats’ feelings about Mr. Trump’s credibility, there was no full-scale retribution for the "You lie!" moment of 2009, when Representative Joe Wilson, Republican of South Carolina, interrupted President Obama during a speech about health care. For Republicans, there was a measure of nervous energy coursing through the Capitol on Tuesday, as lawmakers struggle to find their footing on major agenda items like dismantling the Affordable Care Act and await direction from the president. (Reports hours before the speech that the president had signaled an openness to a broad immigration overhaul, a political minefield for Republicans, did not help.) It is not clear that they heard all they needed to in the address. But the party seemed buoyed, eight years on, to have one of its own at the microphone, applauding early and often. Only once did Democrats get to their feet more quickly: when Mr. Trump spoke of paid family leave. A few red-state Democrats, like Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Jon Tester of Montana, perked up during Mr. Trump’s pleas for collaboration. And most of their colleagues stood at Mr. Trump’s call for a "new program of national rebuilding."  More often, though, the Democratic reviews for Mr. Trump were unkind, occasionally inspiring fits of note scribbling from members. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey took a moment to check his watch. And when the president spoke of the "great, great wall" he hoped to build on the border with Mexico, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the top Democrat in the House, stared blankly, stewing in white. After just over 60 minutes, the president stepped down to the floor, greeting a slim majority of Supreme Court justices. (Three — Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito — were not present.) Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah, the chairman of the House Oversight Committee, who has been criticized for going easy on Mr. Trump, waited patiently for a handshake on the aisle. But for the moment, Mr. Trump sought the embrace of his cabinet, arrayed to his left, cheering him on. The president almost smiled. 