WASHINGTON — Six weeks into unified government, Republican leaders are back to where they were in the Obama years — under fire from conservatives for giving too much ground on major policy issues. In particular, the party push to undo the health care law while avoiding major disruptions in coverage — a priority reinforced on Tuesday by President Trump in his prime-time address — is encountering major resistance from the right. The determined opposition has thrown the party’s repeal effort into confusion and created uncertainty over what to eliminate and how to pay for any alternative. Three Republican senators this week said they would vote only for a straightforward repeal of the law despite reluctance to do so on the part of several colleagues worried about cutting off health insurance to their constituents. With Senate Republicans holding only a 52-seat majority, those three alone — Senators Rand Paul of Kentucky, Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah — could doom a Republican measure opposed by all Democrats. House conservatives are also lining up against emerging repeal-and-replace proposals in numbers that could deny House Republicans the needed votes to deliver on a top priority. "We are a force to be reckoned with," declared Mr. Paul, who has orchestrated the coordinated resistance with the ultraconservative House factions. Conservatives are also showing some unease at sudden indications from Mr. Trump that he might be willing to embrace an immigration overhaul that could lead to legal status for millions of undocumented immigrants. And quick rejection by Republican leaders of many of Mr. Trump’s proposed budget cuts as unachievable is not likely to go down well either. It wasn’t supposed to be this way with Republicans in control of Congress and the White House for the first time since 2006. They were certain they would now have the muscle to carry out their agenda. But just as Mr. Trump has discovered that revising the health law is "unbelievably complex," Republicans are finding that being in charge doesn’t mean being on the same page — or even reading the same book. The developing situation is reminiscent of the challenges faced by John A. Boehner, the former speaker, when he tried to corral recalcitrant conservatives to vote for compromise spending and immigration packages. His inability to do so helped break up a major spending deal, caused a government shutdown and ultimately ended up with the conservatives forcing him out. Despite his retirement, Mr. Boehner might have helped fuel this latest revolt. Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican and leader of House conservatives who clashed repeatedly with Mr. Boehner, noted caustically on Tuesday that the former speaker is now predicting that Republicans won’t be able to kill the law, and Mr. Jordan seemed eager to prove him wrong. "This is what we told the voters we were going to do," he said of the straightforward repeal effort. Conservatives have become increasingly alarmed at discussion of what they deride as "Obamacare Lite" — efforts to keep some of the provisions in place and "repair" the health law rather than kill it outright. They complain that an approach backed by some House health policy writers would impose new taxes on employer-provided health insurance and interfere in a part of the marketplace that is working. And they don’t favor a tax credit plan that Mr. Trump endorsed in his speech. They back the more market-driven approach that Republicans approved in 2015. But that legislation was crafted when President Obama was in office and was certain to veto any repeal — giving Republicans what amounted to a free shot at the law. Now they and their constituents would have to live with the replacement, and lawmakers fear a potential backlash if it goes awry. Many Republicans may have complained that the crowds at angry town hall meetings over the recent recess were organized by political opponents, but that doesn’t mean Republicans aren’t paying attention to them. In the face of that nervousness, Mr. Paul is reminding Republicans that the main reason the party won election victories in 2010, 2014 and now 2016 was the clear promise to end the health care law. "They didn’t tell us to repeal but to keep the Medicaid expansion," Mr. Jordan said. But just as conservatives are adamant that Republicans repeal the law before replacing it, other more centrist Republicans are threatening to withhold their votes if there is no suitable alternative in place. That division is creating a real headache for Republican leaders such as Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader from Kentucky, who have to find something a majority will support. They say they will eventually reach a solution, but they know they have serious problems at the moment. Mr. McConnell called a special Senate Republican meeting for Wednesday to hear from House committee chairmen on their plans and to try to hash out the sharp internal differences. "The goal is for the administration, the House and the Senate to be in the same place," Mr. McConnell said. "We’re not there yet. There’s a lot of discussion about how to craft that, what combination of legislation and regulation will get us to where we want to get."  That is a far cry from confident pledges that the despised health insurance law would quickly be history once Republicans took power. Now conservatives, sensing backsliding among their colleagues, again want to use their numbers to dictate their desired result. Seems just like old times on Capitol Hill. 